Web Programming

single line comments: //comment whatever 

new file: Ctrl K , J 

FTP (File Transfer Protocol) was an early way to transfer files over the internet

Berners-Lee named his creation the World Wide Web made of 
    Text files, known as HTML files, containing links to other text files.
    A program, known as a browser, for viewing HTML files.
    A set of rules, known as the HTTP protocol, for transferring HTML files among computers.
webpage or web page is a document that is viewed in a web browser
A collection of related webpages are organized into a website. 
A web server is a program that serves webpages to web browsers

HyperText markup language (HTML) is the standard markup language for web documents
  Hypertext is text that has links to other text (and today to images, videos, and more)
  markup is special markings in the document that provide additional information about links, 
    formatting, and images
  metadata, such as search engine keywords, author information, and language. 

web browser is a program that downloads an HTML document from a web server, 
  displays the document to the user with the appropriate formatting, 
  and allows the user to interact with the document, such as by 
  clicking hyperlinks to access other documents


HTML defines the structure and content of a webpage.
CSS specifies the layout and visible appearance.
JavaScript describes the dynamic behaviors and actions of a webpage.

IP address (short for Internet Protocol address) is a computer's unique address on the internet

domain name is a name for an IP address, such as the name wikipedia.org
DNS is short for Domain Name System
Thirteen main DNS servers (called root servers) exist in the world
top-level domains (TLD), such as .com, .net, .org, .edu
country code top-level domain (ccTLD) like .uk (United Kingdom)

URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is the location of a web resource on the web
web resource is any retrievable item, like an HTML file, image, video, CSS stylesheet, etc.
  Scheme - Characters at the beginning of a URL followed by a colon ":" or a colon and double 
    slashes "://". Common URL schemes include http, https, mailto, and file. Ex: In 
    https://www.cdc.gov/alcohol, the scheme is "https". 
    Scheme is also commonly called protocol
  Hostname - The complete domain name following the scheme in a URL. Ex: In 
    https://www.cdc.gov/alcohol, the hostname is "www.cdc.gov".
  Path - The characters to the right of the hostname in a URL. Ex: 
    In https://www.cdc.gov/alcohol, the path is "/alcohol"
  Query string - Optional characters to the right of the question mark (?) in a URL that provide 
    data for the web server. In https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uu7XCEMdSHg, the characters after 
    the ? tells YouTube's server to play a video having code uu7XCEMdSHg.
  Fragment - Optional characters at the end of a URL that start with a hash character (#) and refer 
    to a certain location within a webpage. In https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL#History, the 
    fragment "#History" refers to the webpage's History section.

